I mean you can't have an ethical
movement that requires people to be
flatulent 24 hours a day you can't mean
no like we do you want to be ethically
right or do you want to be farting all
day it's so sad to me this is a 16 year
old or 17 year old he doesn't know how
to ask the right questions you know
that's what it's not that she has the
wrong answers that she doesn't know how
to ask the right questions so you have
an ethical commitment and that ethical
movement becomes inconvenient in a very
real and meaningful sense because you're
having horrible indigestion I understand
that where do you go next you know what
I mean like how can it possibly make
sense to go back to killing and eating
dead animals at this stage I just wanted
to be a morally good person I wanted to
feel healthy and I wanted to look
healthy just do problems I had never
previously had to just do problems I
could eat whatever I want and I'd be
fine but now I was feeling bloated
nearly every single day I felt yeah
there are people who feel that good
nutrition and good digestion are their
birthright you know that it should be
completely non problematic to be full
and lean and vibrant healthy it
effortlessly so to speak and the reality
is most of us have some ideas about
nutrition that come from our
grandparents and they may be terrible
and wrong people feel that way about
relationships do people feel the way
about love they think love should be
easy they think like you they think like
you should need any education or effort
to make a relationship work or to fall
in love or be in love and someone has to
see you down and say no it's hard work
you know your diet and your digestion
specifically it's not something we're
born being good you stopped paying
attention for a split second you make
one mistake and for the next 12 hours
thing damn I screwed that up and I wish
we went to one a Middle Eastern
restaurant I can't even call it Middle
Eastern it was a falafel restaurant
there was nothing middle-eastern about
it we had vegan falafel with hummus we
had 12 hours of horrible indigestion
we both had like no sleep that night
woke up ill rested as hell so we have
bad digestion and it means you don't
sleep are glad you can't sleep
it was awful and you sit there you go
goddamn it those people don't know how
to cook beans that must have been made
with raw chickpeas or just barely cooked
you've noticed of taking the chickpeas
just barely warmed them up on the plate
we are not mountain goats that can just
show up raw vetches and digest them I
don't even know if it's that easy for
the mountain goats maybe they also
suffer with hours and hours and maybe
you give chickpeas to mountain goats it
doesn't go so well I don't even know
they can tolerate chickpeas ibonus yen
so today okay the way that she says it
is kind of insane just be honest but
like you know I understand she's 16 or
17 yeah somewhere in that ballpark there
go on yeah um sorry I don't judge her as
harshly as a an older person but yeah
okay I know she's like 16 but still I
can't I mean I feel energetic
so Wow I'd stop swimming by this point
so I didn't need all that extra protein
in energy at this time so I was like IFA
cannot work and I was feeling pretty
good and then about into the third month
of my vegan journey everything just
started going downhill I think I first
started basically just feeling tired oh
and I had these like jelly muscles all
I'm saying is waiting like weight
lifting will make you feel a lot better
and she didn't try that at all when she
was vegan
she started weightlifting after she won
by eating meat her hand I mean the
timing of when she quit doing the only
sports she was doing could be related I
think there were there were kind of big
overarching things here and then there
were little underpinning things I think
it's interesting that at no stage in
this process did she consult science of
any kind like what were the cultural
influence influences in her life her
friend group or peer group and then
YouTube personalities including freely
and Caitlin shoemaker and a couple
others I don't remember precisely
everyone she she mentioned she would
probably others she doesn't test bag
high school dropout test bag wow there's
a great influence in your life and she
just she said she met with the
nutritionist that was an apparel of the
nutritionist is a complete piece of [ __ ]
I mean that the nutritionist endorsed
the most unscientific low protein and
was a terrible influence on her like oh
so like the one part of your diet that's
normal is rice so let's eliminate that
and have you living just on raw fruits
and vegetables it's terrible terrible
advice basically for anyone but yeah
unfortunately the nutritionist could
have been a voice of reason and wasn't
the nutritionist you know endorsed even
more I need more insane diet you know
but look okay
in terms the big overarching issue a lot
of people whether they're sixteen or
thirty six really feel that diet and
nutrition is something that's easy or
ought to be easy or even instinctual or
you know I mean I remember a political
magazine it was an ecological radical or
extremist magazine and it's saying as it
was the most ridiculous thing but our
society can't possibly endure because in
modern Western society people can't even
feed themselves and I remember reading
that's their other interesting things
remember reading that I thought you know
it's it's really interesting that for
someone else reading this would find
that plausible or compelling that like
in society you know like people ought to
be able to grow their own food you know
that's really what it's saying in effect
but in reality historically
in every period of time I mean the first
step on the progress of civilization is
that we stop having to spend 98 percent
of our time gathering and farming our
own food I mean that's exactly the
points that we have any society at all
means that you rely on other people to
feed you or there are other people to
produce you know you're in process your
food the you you take the huge leap from
gathering you know fruits and berries
and someone to doing things like
processing wheat into into flour and
then making flour into bread and no not
everyone makes their own bread one
person is the baker and someone else is
the candlestick maker you know that
that's but remember just reading that
and thinking that's interesting you know
who is the person reading this who finds
that convincing you know a convincing
criticisms I mean who isn't but I mean
likewise on a much more broad unexamined
level there are people who feel that
good nutrition and good digestion are
their birthright
you know that it should be completely
non problematic to be full and lean and
vibrant healthy it effortlessly so to
speak and the reality is most of us have
some ideas about nutrition that come
from our grandparents and they may be
terrible and wrong you know what I don't
know what your grandparents are I don't
know don't let's not get into our actual
grandparents here but you know most of
us you know unless unless your
grandparents were really like path
beating nutritionists from the 1920s you
know there were some of the first people
jumping on the science bandwagon it's
like the odds are those those dietary
choices and habits and and just cultural
traditions are totally unhealthy totally
unscientific and and also just maybe way
more time consuming a lot of that sort
of that one of those results were based
on the assumption that every family had
a housewife or servants a lot of the
most just don't fit into modern life in
terms of the pace of modern life waking
people wake up now we need a power bar
you know I remember so scientific
research the percentage of people eating
breakfast cereal was going down the
presenters people eating power bars is
going up and you know why right who
needs a bowl who wants to spend time
cleaning a bowl after they eat breakfast
right but yeah that that to me is kind
of a big overarching thing and then at
no point I'm I think most I don't think
thirty six year olds are so different
from sixteen year olds in that way and
no point is there a questioning of of
some kind of scientific source
yeah obviously if your diet isn't
working you should change it up I know
she's younger but like you know she said
she just kept going on this rice and
vegetables diet which it's not she
always felt hungry she always would
adjust Yeah right
um and I it also is important to note
that she was reporting symptoms I was
poor digestion
right and she mentioned that her mom has
IBS so it could just be like you know
some family um inheritance
I don't see it that way I think the
thing is most people don't even know the
questions to ask when they have that
kind of problem like you and I mean I'm
I'm 39 years old I've lived all over the
world
so yesterday I look I still have
problems with my digestion but I at
least know the question to ask at least
live a life where I can find out what's
wrong and try to fix it yesterday I had
awful indigestion that kept me up late
and ruined my night's sleep it happens
and I asked Melissa we almost the same
thing you know three meals yesterday I
asked most oh did you have a digest you
know so I figured out the one thing that
caused my indigestion was basically the
one thing I eat that you didn't eat they
okay so that's what that was that's what
caused that problem I'm not gonna eat
that again and in a very systematic way
as life goes on I learn about those
things and look into them the number one
problem with the vegan diet is beans is
that even the great the number-one
problem are beans I mean come on sir
it's plural it sounds wrong to say it is
it is beans the problem is beans beans
are the problem beans are fantastically
healthy and most national guidelines you
know United States health guidelines and
other other countries national
guidelines they're encouraging everyone
to eat more beans and most people don't
know how to cook beans they don't
realize just how much time and energy
has to go into boiling beans beans are
not like beef in that way hey you do it
again I don't know if you ever even did
that when you were mere you ever take
you like ever make a raw steak it cooks
for a remarkably short period of time a
lot of things in the meat eaters diet
like protein sources are big and heavy
you know and hard but you cook them for
these very short periods of time chicken
is not like that by contrast but a lot
of the forms of meat you throw the
ground beef even yeah throwing ground
beef in a sauce pan to make tacos at
home you toss it through and if you wait
till it turns brown and then it's done
and that's it and beans are not like
that in order to be digestible beans and
lentils need a lot of cooking and when I
saw is the first time I did this my
first time watching the whole video born
I clicked through it I completely
assumed the problem was exactly lentils
or
means other things like that that are
hard to digest if she didn't know there
were no in this case I don't know what
to tell you I mean maybe it's kale kale
it [ __ ] hard to digest yeah I do I
mean you've seen me I once had a huge
salad of kale and you said to me
afterwards like I don't think you can
possibly digest that you were right I
mean you know we're not cows we can't
digest massive quantities of a lot of
those raw green vegetables like like
kale we're not you know we can we can
eat lettuce but you know lettuce as it
exists today is a hundred percent of the
product of human intervention in in
whatever want to call it know unnatural
selection
you know selective breeding of these
plants you know in nature of plants like
lettuce and including let's have a lot
of indigestion latex in them you know I
should have rubber in them to prevent
protect themselves against insects and
predators I mean most of broccoli
doesn't exist in nature broccoli this
wonderful unbelievably nutritious food
does not remotely resemble its its wild
ancestor what evolution produced in the
wild you know this is this is human
selection that's the species Thanks
so I mean some things are very healthy
for us and very easily digestible some
things are natural but are completely
unhealthy for us like tobacco and
cocaine those are plants you can just
eat them out of your backyard in theory
you can grow your own tobacco we can
grow our own cocaine until someone
arrest you for it and just eat them out
of the yard and there you can grow your
own aconite if you don't know what
aconite is a kadai tis an incredibly
powerful poison it was 100% natural I'm
sorry what's up up there with strychnine
in terms of deadly poisons in the world
you know but I totally sympathize I
totally relate to this thing people feel
that way about relationships - people
feel the way about love they think love
should be easy they think like you they
think like you shouldn't need any
education or effort to make a
relationship work or to fall in love or
be in love and someone has to see you
down and say no it's hard work whether
that's in terms of listening or
communicating or whatever it is or
organizing your schedules no I mean
being in love and being in a loving
relationship takes effort something you
work at you know and you know your diet
and your digestion specifically it's not
something we're born being
I don't think people are born being good
at you know this kind of relationship I
mean I think you know in every
relationship we learn I have more
experience with ships than you do but we
still are learning together we're
learning how to live together how to
have a highly productive highly
effective life I think every good
relationship you do that both parties
you know do that you know I think most
people sorry I'm so old now I'm 39 when
I was younger didn't mean no like when I
was your age you know being in a
relationship and learning how to not
lose your temper with the other person
when they do things that really
legitimately like Vickie's lose your
temper that used to be more proper for
me sure when I was 23 25 sure you know
um you learn you know those are learned
behaviors it's not it's not something
you have just from growing up out of the
womb and I know people want it to be
easy and whether it's love or diet or
digestion people deeply yearn for this
music beauty also people want to be
beautiful without in the effort people
want to be fit and lean and lift a lot
of weight without a lot of effort and
you know weight training is incredibly
repetitious I mean it is interesting in
some ways but I mean you know sir it's
unbelievable so well how I'm gonna do
this morning I did a hundred push-ups
that I want if the floor looks exactly
the same when I'm looking through the
floor doing those push-ups it's hard
work it's repetitious its
detail-oriented and and you know what
this has in common exercise in digestion
and if you screw up once you can regret
it for 12 hours 24 hours a week you know
I mean like if you like even something
like a pushup if you mess up and you go
down your wrists the wrong way if you're
lifting weights and you drop the weight
on your foot you stop paying attention
for a split second you make one mistake
and for the next 12 hours thinking damn
I screwed that up and I wish we should
we went to one a Middle Eastern
restaurant I can't even call it Middle
Eastern it was a falafel restaurant
there was nothing middle-eastern about
it it was a totally you know like white
Western hipster you know falafel
restaurant there was nothing
authentically middle-eastern about
that's fine
we had vegan falafel with hummus we had
12 hours of horrible indigestion
we both had like no sleep that night
woke up ill rested as hell so when you
have bad digestion it means you
sleep arkla that you can't sleep over it
was awful it was just awful didn't taste
bad didn't taste bad really you know
okay whatever
just say didn't taste bad going down and
you sit there you go god damn it those
people don't know how to cook beans that
must have been made with raw chickpeas
or just barely cooked a ghost of taking
the chickpeas just barely warmed them up
on the plate I don't think there was
anything else wrong with it but with the
chickpeas of the hummus there aren't a
lot of Susman I think it's just the
chickpeas they were feeding us raw
chickpeas guess what human beings are
not goats you can promise that is true
it absolutely problem if the ingestion
was so horrible they just don't like
there was enough I must to account for
that I think it had to be more than just
that but you know we are not mountain
goats that can just show up raw vetches
and digest them I don't even know if
it's that easy for the mountain goats
maybe they also suffer with hours and
hours and maybe you give chickpeas to
mountain goats it doesn't go so well I
don't even know they can tolerate
chickpeas but you know beans have
evolved anyway it's not worth getting is
the biology of it but no it's it's not
easy and like I said look like with
working out if you make one little
mistake then you really have a reason to
regret it for many hours or maybe many
days you know eating dried ground up
this is a topic I can't speak on but
look okay you know so for me another big
issue raised by this you know it's so
sad to me this is a 16 year old or 17
year old who doesn't know how to ask the
right questions you know that's what
it's not that she has the wrong answers
that she doesn't know how to ask the
right questions so you have an ethical
commitment and that ethical commitment
becomes inconvenient in a very real and
meaningful sense because you're having
horrible into the estrin I understand
that where do you go next you know what
I mean like how can it possibly make
sense to go back to killing and eating
dead animals you know how can that
positive the next step there have to be
some other questions there has to be
some other source of inspiration
maybe it really was that me why did she
go to the nutritionist in the first
place
must have already had a problem she was
trying to solve when she went to the
nutritionist she didn't tell it in that
order but she went she tried to get
medical help from a pseudo-scientific
pseudo medical professor professional
who put her on an even worse diet and
then she just gave up so this does cause
people to drop out of the of the vegan
diet but you don't I think most 36 year
olds have the same problem if they
encounter a problem with veganism or
they feel bad they don't know where to
go they don't know how to how to facture
they don't know what questions to ask
but like the question am i getting
enough protein is a legitimate question
and she should have asked herself that
she said herself was a really low
protein diet she was not um she
apparently didn't ask that question and
didn't try to remedy it or didn't try to
try to search things up you know I just
want to say I mean this is a totally
different light on this issue
you did make a video once like veganism
chasing a feeling I think right the
youtubers name was Tori right yeah she
was she went vegan and was chasing the
health you know the good health the
vibrant energy were that people talked
about while being on a vegan diet I
think that was mentioned in a really
low-key way here just a sense that
veganism would solve all your problems
or improve your health and it really
does hurt one or two months she said she
was feeling like really energy yeah I'm
healthy and then after three months she
was having problems no right yeah I
think I look I mean you know I don't
know what to tell people culturally or
practically I mean you can't have an
ethical movement that requires people to
be flatulent 24 hours a day you can't
mean no like we do you want to be
ethically right or do you want to be
farting all day like it's a real problem
it's a real issue with beans being most
obvious problem beans kayo a lot of the
foods you know we promote as healthy are
not easy to digest especially not when
people are ignorant about how to cook
them yeah I just remembered
I'm still a member of the Detroit vegans
Facebook group and somebody posted about
their son who's in middle school I
believe and he got she got a letter from
his teachers saying that his flatulence
is disturbing the class since he went
vegan he farts so much in class that
it's actually a problem in school you
know like you want people to stay vegan
but you have to like you know go through
your diet and see what's causing issues
and it's not it's not easy it's not
really straightforward and yeah but I I
don't think it's just exclusive to the
vegan diet too because know from what
look for my respect look look I'll end
it on this note but from my perspective
it's not exclusive to the vegan diet
it's not exclusive to diet and I already
made the comparison to exercise but I
don't think I ever told you this
anecdote I was once sitting down with a
woman who had a background of doing
humanitarian work and she had converted
to Buddhism she become quite a pious
Buddhist although not that intellectual
or well-informed but estable with the
actual philosophy and core the religion
is and she said to me kind of angrily
and self-righteously why can't someone
make a textbook for the pali language
pali is the name of a language the most
ancient language that buddhist
philosophy in it why can't someone d why
can't somebody make a textbook that'll
make learning Pali easy you know and she
filled and titled this that learning
learning this language ought to be easy
and I just sat there I stuck to my guns
I didn't say in the mean way I said why
she said what I said why would it be
easy yeah and you know she was self
righteous she was giving defensive and
offensive answers but I said to her if
somebody told you they wanted to learn
ancient Greek to read philosophy would
you say that should be easy who someone
solely they wanted to learn Latin to
read Cicero we said oh that's gonna be
easy look why would this be easy you
want to learn an ancient language you
don't want to learn it well enough to
just be able to get around the airport
or ask where is the bathroom or ask is
this food vegan you're wanting to read
this at a level that's really advanced
you know even for a native speaker of
that language
like why would that be easy I just kept
asking her that and it did actually
profound by the end of the conversation
it profoundly changed her perspective
because she was struggling to come up
with answers feeding yourself
I hate to say it why would that be easy
living a life an ethical life living a
morally upright life why would that be
easy you know cuisine cooking beans
cooking them well so they taste good and
they're easily digestible
why would that be easy all of these
things are hard and they always have
been I think through all of human
history you know what I mean why would
they be easy for a 16 year old it's it's
goddamn hard and the reality is the role
that used to be played by our
grandparents and our parents and
teaching these things exactly these
things how to be physically fit out of a
good diet how to cook whether you think
of that as housekeeping being housewife
or cooking for yourself or whatever and
what it means to be morally upright to
be righteous to be ethical that used to
be the grandparents role and right now
that role is being played by YouTube and
this girl really is an example of that
she's an example of both how people can
get positively motivated and bright and
bushy-tailed and try their best and also
how tragically that so often leads to
them you know losing their motivation
and dropping a bonus Yin